Data wrangling for fun and profit
=================================

Welcome to **DataPatterns.org**, a collection of tips and tricks for data 
work. This collection is not an finished document but a collection of 
opinions and evolving best practices. The purpose is not to present all 
available options and technologies but to pick one and follow it through.
DataPatterns is also a collaborative effort: if you have some good hacks and 
would like to share them, please contribute a patch to the `DataPatterns 
repository`_

.. _DataPatterns repository: https://github.com/okfn/datapatterns

**Note on the use of the term 'pattern':** The term pattern has developed a 
very specific meaning in software engineering. While we use the term in this 
sense, the tricks presented are not defined as a pattern using any of the 
formal templates that have developed for software design patterns.

Target audience
---------------

This site is for anyone interested in working with data. It assumes you have 
a basic working knowledge of UNIX shell commands, the Python programming
language, networking, SQL and common file formats like HTML, CSV or XML. If 
you are not familiar with these technologies, start by working through a 
tutorial on Python, such as Zed Shaw's `Learn Python the Hard Way`_ and then
pick up the others as you need them.

.. _`Learn Python the Hard Way`: http://learnpythonthehardway.org/

We hope that some of the content will be especially useful to the many
emerging types of data users, such as data journalists, civic hackers, coding
wonks etc.

While most techniques apply to any kind of machine-readable information, some 
of the material may refer to a specific class of data that we care a lot 
about: open government data. Government information is a good example of data 
both for the interesting things that we can learn from it, but also because 
virtually any imaginable data problem applies to it: incompleteness, corruption,
strange formats or sheer size.


